You ask me a question like this, it sounds like a lot
of ego. Well, it's true, but I dare say
most of it by far was sincere ego on the parts of all
the rivals. Or sincere concern. Some.
Picky-oonish and absolutely unreasonable.
Okay. Who were those some? I'd say the lesser
informed and lesser capable.
It'd be hard to pick out an individual by name, and
I'd say it's unreasonable. It's the old story,
just a man is, by the time you spent your whole
career in the service and been indoctrinated in
the
doctrines and principles
It's difficult to
make a man change his mind. Now, one of the things we
were taught in Air War College is there's certain
doctrines and principles and strategies. Now,
the question that's always raised, and this was
obvious in the Southeast Asian War, because a lot
of technological advances were made, is does
weapon systems and new innovations in weapon
systems dictate strategy, or does strategy
dictate weapon systems? This isn't a black and
white, this doesn't require a black and white
answer, and there is no black and white answer. The
actual answer is both. It just depends.
Now, certainly, the atomic bomb a nuclear
armament, there's no doubt it dictates strategy.
A laser-guided bomb, let's say that is a little bit
different. Let's say that
has an impact on tactics. But there's always this
question here in which the generals are going to
disagree and discuss or debate or argue. Right.
But this doesn't change principles in command and
the influence of people and the use of people who
make decisions. For instance, you can induce all
the computers you want, but they handle data. It's
the decision the man makes, the commander makes.
I'm getting to the specific part of the commander
of all air. One man has to do all these things. And
there's one man that should do it. Now, he can
delegate certain things to certain areas and
certain times, but one man has to do that, one air
commander.
The solution that was finally arrived at in
Southeast Asia, to the best of my knowledge, was
that all coordination was done at AT, at 7th Air
Force. I don't remember, I believe, I think
General O'Meara did get a naval guy in his
headquarters, if you will, a naval liaison
officer. Now, I know there was one at- By the way, I
think you said this before, but his headquarters
was in Saigon, wasn't it? Where was his
headquarters? At Tonsenute Air Base in Saigon.
Okay. As well as General Westmoreland. Oh, yeah,
yeah. He was right with Westmoreland. Right,
right. There was practically Jason one of them.
But the coordination of, for instance, the
selection of targets and all. Now, this was
primarily done by General . And the man that
selects the targets and sets up the rules of
engagement, now that, you might say, is the
commander. He really has command then.
Well, let's talk about Mollmeyer. We've talked
about him, and I want to talk about some of his
personalities here. We've mentioned a lot of very
important people here, and I want to talk about
them and get your impressions or opinions of them.
And let's start with him, Mollmeyer. Well, I knew
him. What type of person was he? He was a very
private person, very dedicated. Matter of fact, a
hard man to meet. I often thought Spike must have
been an awful, awful lonely person. Now, a
commander is a lonely person. Speaking
generally, he is a lonely man, a commander is. But
General Moltmeyer was, he didn't mix well. He
didn't have a engaging personality at all. He was
just plain old
devoted, I mean, Is there a stronger word than
devoted or dedicated? You name it. That's what he
was to his job. He literally lived, ate, slept his
job.
Did he have a sense of humor? Yeah, he did. As a
matter of fact, I knew him personally. And we'd sit
down, we'd laugh, and we'd make jokes. And we'd
laugh about some of the things. He'd laugh about
some of his problems. really. But when it got down
to, you know, solving the problem or all, he's all
business. He's all business. And particularly in
staff meetings. He wouldn't prevent smoking in
staff meetings. There's a lot of them like that. He
drank very little.
He was, he had an unusually good memory. He had
Facts and figures at hand that would just astound
you. To give you an example of how good he was, when
General Ryan took over command of the Pacific Air
Forces, see in effect, Seventh Air Force had a
certain responsibility to him, but in a chain of
command, and General Ryan was a very strong man,
and of course was General Momar, extremely
strong, strong will. And General Ryan and General
Momar clashed immediately, and to the point
where, through General Ryan's orders, Momar took
a trip back to USAF headquarters. Really? Yes,
sir. It is called by General McConnell. to report
General McConnell. And talk about this? Yes, sir.
And if I went back, you know, feeling ill, I'm going
to be relieved. Was he? No. Matter of fact, to make a
long story short, before General Mulmire left
Washington, DC, he got clear up to the level and
briefed President Roosevelt personally on the
war. Johnson? Johnson. Johnson. I'm sorry. And
went back to his job for the blessings of General
McConnell. And General McConnell called General
Ryan Person on the phone and said, Jack, you forget
about General McConnell. He went over there and
says, this is the first man I've ever seen that
could out-talk and out-reason McNamara. No
kidding? Yes, sir. He had more facts and figures
and could talk statistics better than that.
That's how good he was. Okay, let's talk about
Mollmeyer's relations with Westmoreland. I'm
sure you met Westmoreland a number of times. He and
General Westmoreland had a very healthy respect
for General Mollmeyer, and General Mollmeyer was
instrumental. As a matter of fact, he and General
Westmoreland were completely together on, you
know, how to control SACS missions in South
Vietnam, the giant strikes, you know, against the
Viet Cong camps. So, and also, General
Westmoreland and Ambassador Sullivan were, I
don't think two people could be more hostile and
hated each other more than those two did. And I
actually used my headquarters one time for a
meeting at directions of for
their meeting about coordination of operations
in Laos. They came to my headquarters. General
Sullivan wouldn't permit him to come in Laos.
Why'd they hate each other so much? Well, General
Ed, well, to quote, I sat in on the meeting because I
was the host, if you will. And General Mowmeyer, by
the way, accompanied Admiral General
Westmoreland and sat there. And
it was obvious, you know, Mowmeyer said- When they
met each other, would they shake hands? Oh, yeah.
Oh, yeah. They were, you know, civil to each other.
But when you get to the meeting and start talking
about things, and this is where the- Recount the
meeting. I'm going to do that.
To make a long story short, they started arguing
about
General Westmoreland wanting to put forces into
Laos. He had to expand the area against Viet Cong
and hit the supply bases. See, he reasoned, like
any general, you've got to hit him at his source and
interdict his supply line. This got over into
Laos.
and said, well, there's certain things, you know,
that I'm boss in Laos, and there's certain rules,
you know, we've got to follow, and we don't want to
spread this war, and then, you know, this got into
really argument, and both were expounding their
views and trying to settle a problem, and General
Westmoreland said, well, I'm the commander over
here, and I've got authority to do this." And
Ambassador Sullivan says, well, I'm the
commander and the boss in Laos and nobody does
anything in Laos without my approval. Well, this
is how. No kidding. And this just turned out to be an
impasse and that's what left. Did they start
shouting at each other? Oh yeah. They both got real
heated. Oh yeah. Well, it was a very heated debate.
But they left civility to one another, naturally.
And they couldn't resolve the issue. No. It would
go to a higher level anyway, didn't it? It did go up
to a higher level, and that's the way it was
resolved. And Sullivan won? Well, the decision
was eventually to put forces into Laos after I went
home. Yeah, later. Later. When Nixon became
president. Nixon was president. As a matter of
fact, General Stilwell at Matai was all for this
idea, too. But, see, he was trained by General
Westmoreland. At one time, he was chief of staff of
Armed Forces South Vietnam under Westmoreland.
And when this job came open in Thailand,
Westmoreland sent him over there with the idea of
controlling what's going on in Thailand also.
Now, during this meeting, were they swearing at
each other? No, no.
And every once in a while. Did you have to cool them
down? Oh, no. I didn't open my mouth in this
meeting. I just provided my office, coffee, and a
chair. And very highly entertained and amused.
And once all over, of course, the gentleman
O'Meara didn't pass. And I was escorting him to the
airplane. And actually, we laughed and grinned
about it. In front of Westmoreland you're
laughing? Oh yeah. I think actually in, I think,
well I actually think they shook hands and left.
Sullivan and Westmoreland. And Spike and I,
General O'Meara and I were laughing about it. And
of course General O'Meara, you know he, General
O'Meara supported General Westmoreland. So to
get back to your basic question, in a lot of ways,
see, Westmoreland and General O'Meara were in the
same boat. So they got along okay. What was your
opinion of Westmoreland? Very controversial
figure in America at this time. I think he was a very
egotistical
person and vain type of a person, but I even think it
turned out, you know, he had aspirations to be
President of the United States. You think he did?
Oh, yes.
But, uh, I learned to know General Westmoreland in
exercises in the United States way before he went
over to Southeast Asia, and he was a very
controversial man in those exercises about who
would control the air transport in the landing
zone of the Florida area of exercise, the Army or
the Air Force. He was definitely an Army man, died
in the World Army. all of the philosophy of the Air
Force, particularly for close air support.
He was instrumental in a lot in the Army getting on
to their current helicopter combat operations.
Do you think that he was a pompous man? He
wasn't as pompous as
For instance, the Ambassador Graham Martin.
Okay, well we're going to get into him. Did he have a
sense of humor? Oh, yeah. Westmoreland did? He was
articulate, very articulate. He was
strong-willed. He wasn't as quiet
He mixed more easily with, he was more of a social
man than Mowmire was. He was more of a diplomat. He
had diplomacy. General Mowmire would never be a
diplomat in the State Department. Never.
Westmoreland could be a diplomat. He could be an
ambassador. General Mowmire could.
OK.
Who was the ambassador in Thailand, later became
the ambassador, and the last ambassador in
Vietnam?
Ambassador Grant Martin was a career diplomat and
a very capable person, in my opinion. And you might
say he was, I won't say he was a typical member of the
State Department,
Many people have a different idea of what a State
Department man is. He was a good ambassador.
He did wonders for Thailand. They loved him. He was
really dedicated to his mission to help the Thais.
And I agreed with everything he wanted to do. What
did he want to do? He wanted to give the Thai Armed
Forces more capability. He sincerely believed
that there was encroachment of North Vietnamese
insurgents across the border from Laos into
Thailand. I agreed with him. He wanted to give the
Thai air forces and the Thai police a capability
with helicopters to combat them. He fought the
certain elements of the, well, he fought McNamara
primarily and his thoughts in Washington because
McNamara primarily thought that the threat to
Thailand was way under overdone by the Thais and
their demand for military aid, and that
Ambassador Martin supported them. Therefore, he
didn't agree with it. It came so intense that
Secretary McNamara would never come to Thailand.
He wouldn't enter Thailand. Graham Martin didn't
want him in Thailand. Matter of fact, whether
Graham Martin had the authority to keep him from
coming to Thailand, I don't know, but I know he
never did come, and I know that's exactly the way
the ambassador felt about him. There was extreme
hostility there, and it showed in wires that I was
privy to read that he sent back to Washington.
Ambassador Martin, and perhaps rightly so, he
felt he was the representative of the president He
was not a representative of the State Department.
He was a representative of the President, and he
did what he thought the President would do in
Thailand. This was not too apparent in the way
Ambassador Sullivan felt.
I guess Ambassador Sullivan didn't feel that
strongly about his responsibility. He honored
the Secretary of State, perhaps, let's say,
That's the impression I got, much more so than did
Ambassador Grant Martin. Now, I asked about
pomposity, and you said Martin. Yes, he was. He was
a, in my opinion, and I don't say this critically,
but pompous describes his personality in a lot of
cases, particularly when dealing with
subordinates. I have observed him in the presence
of the king and queen and the ministers and high
officials of Thailand. And he was a very polite and
courteous and, oh, not servile, but very proper,
if you will, diplomat-wise, very proper. But to
subordinate, definitely pompous. He, as much as
he liked and respected me, and that man wrote wires
on me recommending me for promotion on the spot.
That's how much he admired me. No kidding? Yes,
sir. Why? He admired me. Why? Because I supported
him. In my respect to him as my boss, I supported
him. I actually argued for some of his desires and
ideas with my other bosses. He knew I was there. He
trusted me completely. And one of my other bosses,
like General Wilson, 13th Air Force Commander, I
actually heard him say to General McConnell and to
General Ryan, General Harris, the Pacific Air
Force Commander, that this guy has got the
ambassadors eating out of his hand. You did?
That's what he said. He said that to me. I mean, he
said that to them about me. He said, this guy,
Charlie, he got these ambassadors. He handed his
hand. Well, be that as it may, let's say I was just
doing my job. But both Ambassador Sullivan and
Ambassador Martin, I have to say I respect them
because they They admired me and we established a
rapport and friendship. Now there's something,
the way they did and operate, I didn't agree with.
Like what? I don't agree with the way,
I don't agree with the way, the abruptness of
Ambassador Grant Martin with his subordinates
and staff. I don't think he knew how to handle
people properly. At least he didn't handle them
the way I would handle people. He
was too jealous of his prerogatives. I feel,
Terry, that a man that has authority, when he has to
exercise it to get things done with people he's
talking to, when he has to exercise his authority
to get things done, then I don't consider this real
leadership. And I take General Eisenhower. Oh,
we're going to talk about leaders later. Okay. But
I agree. I mean, I have read accounts of when Graham
Martin was ambassador of Vietnam, written by his
subordinates, and they bring out these things how
they didn't like the man being his subordinate. I
can understand that. You can understand. Okay,
now let's compare Graham Martin with Bill
Sullivan. Well, Graham Martin, of course, was a
much older man. And
in physical stature, he was a much taller man and
looked more elderly. And in a lot of ways, the way he
appeared, let's say, a little bit more
statesman-like. Statesmanship, if you will.
Ambassador Sullivan was a younger man, very
ambitious. but equally as zealous of his
authority as Ambassador Martin. Equally, both of
them, very zealous of his authority. But so was
Beaumont, so was Westmoreland, so was General
Stilwell, and who knows, maybe Charlie Bond. But
nevertheless, to answer your question,
ambitious. He was extremely articulate.
He was known for his sarcasm and his wires to
Washington, D.C.
It was strange the way why he did it, I don't know,
but maybe it was a characteristic that identified
him and separated him apart from other people. But
many people talked about the characteristics of
his cables going back to Washington. Very
satirical or sarcastic or describing his
Feelings about a problem or a relationship with
other people. It's difficult for me to think right
now of an example. How did he get along with other
people? 7th Air Force staff hated his guts. As a
matter of fact, they made a comment to me on one
visit where I was trying to coordinate efforts.
And I think I made the comment. And President
General Lamar and his staff You see, I was
responsible for General Momar as Water Sullivan.
And I said to somebody, well, now you've got to put
yourself in Ambassador Sullivan's position.
He's got his responsibility. He's got to do
certain things. And I think, sincerely, he
realizes General Momar's responsibilities. And
he recognizes them. What did Momar say to that?
Momar didn't say anything. But one of his staff
said, well, I'll tell you this. How did he put it? if
we need more friends like him, I'd rather have
enemies or something to that extent. That was
indicative of how much they had a distaste for him.
There's a staff for him. But this, again, was, you
know, supporting Don Omar and what they knew of his
function. These are understandable remarks for
people who don't know the entire story. Sure.
Sounds like you're balancing that because it took
up most of your time. It did. That's the reason I was
given the job. Okay, now did Rusk ever come over
there, Dean Rusk, Secretary of State under
Johnson? Did he ever come over? No. You never met
him? I never met him in time. Okay, let's talk about
a man who's very controversial, especially with
the military, and that's Secretary of Defense
McNamara. Oh, indeed, I can understand that. I've
already told you a story about General Lamar. You
already told me about him and McNamara, and you
also told me that Graham Martin wouldn't even let
him into the country. Did you ever meet McNamara?
No, not to shake his hand or meet him in a social
gathering, but I have seen him at a site. I only know
him by what I by hearing him on TV or radio or by
reading his wires or reading about him. Well, I'm
sure that Momar must have had some words to you
about McNamara.
And Westmoreland, they must have made some
comments about McNamara. I think General
Westmoreland, if I remember correctly, I think
General Westmoreland probably
I'm not going to say. I don't know how General
Westmoreland felt about McNamara, but General
Momar- He never made a statement? Westmoreland
never made a statement about McNamara? Not in my
presence. Oh, okay. Oh, I've read a lot about him.
Yeah, okay. But you want what I know. Yeah. What did
Momar say in your presence? In my, best of my
memory, Momar, well, I know he did not like
McNamara.
Mm-hmm. And- And you recall, I told you, he briefed
McNamara. He went from McConnell to the JCS
chairman to McNamara to President Johnson. And I
think McNamara had respect for Omar. He must have
after that meeting. But Spike didn't care for him.
And for the reasons that you and I have read about
McNamara. Secretary, and this again is my
opinion, I've never met the man, but based on
hearing other people talk who had been in meetings
with him and knowing him and talking about him. I
guess the best way to drive it, Secretary McNamara
wasn't near as smart as he thought he was. And I
think history proved that statement. And there
again is a man that's put in charge of a job that goes
out on his own without accepting the experience
and know-how of people who've been in the business
and made serious mistakes. I think that's very
important. And I'll bet you, if you talked to
Secretary McNamara today, I bet you he'd admit it.
In other words, listening to people like Momar and
other generals, it appeared that McNamara just
didn't listen to the professionals in the
service. Is that true? Anybody. He listened to
anybody, in my opinion. And he certainly didn't
take advice of the professionals in the field.
Neither did his so-called whiz kid gang. There
seems to be a lot of tension between the whiz kids
and McNamara and the generals. Is that true? In
those days, too. The way information's hefted
down to me during those years, I bet it's true. And
the things that you heard and the... read, you
know, you reach much of it where the smoke is fire.
It had to be there.
There's no doubt Secretary McNamara had to be a
very capable man as far as memory is concerned,
analyzing a problem, and dedicated to his job,
ability to absorb facts. I just think his biggest
deficiency is that he just didn't accept the fact
that experienced military men under him did know
what was going on and actually were honest.
Sometimes I must think he doubted the honesty of a
lot of people under him.
Did you ever receive a survey by a Brigadier
General in the Army named Douglas Kinnard about
your role in Southeast Asia? Kinnard?
K-I-N-N-A-R-D.
Ask me that question again. Did you ever receive a
survey after you retired by a Brigadier General
who served in Vietnam named Douglas Kinnard?
There was another major... But you said about me.
No, about America's role in Vietnam. Oh, no. I've
heard the word, but no, I don't know. I don't think I
have. Because this man wrote a book entitled The
War Managers based on a number of generals who
served in Vietnam and their answers to his long
question here about what went wrong in Vietnam.
And I was just wondering. No, I've never seen it.
The big question here, of course, and this is a
question for historians and military military
professionals and for future planning is why did
we lose that war? What's your opinion?
Well, I can certainly understand the question and
it rightfully should be asked.
There's probably a lot of facts that I don't know
that cause people at higher levels, and I'm
talking about presidential and secretary
levels, civilian,
presidential and secretary levels in
Washington, D.C.,
that I don't know. I'm sure there are some things I
don't know, many things. I've had enough
experience in my Russian tour and my Southeast
Asian tour in dealing with high level civilian
authorities to know that there's things that are
going on at higher levels that we at the lower
levels never get word of. based on what I know and
analysis and I've asked myself this question many
many times and gone through a lot of soul touching
about it and I think the best way to try to
categorically answer your question is that had
the had the
will from the president right on down been made and
existed that we're in a war and we're going to win it
and I'm going to tell the military to win this war
and let them go and do it, that war would have been
over easily in six months. Easily in six months.
This was not done. There may be a reason for it.
Namely, maybe there was justification for fear of
China. being brought in across into North Vietnam
and broadening the war. Maybe there was
justification for it. At my level, and as
hindsight proves now, definitely there was none.
I don't think China would have.
And I'm sure at a presidential level, I've been in
command position to know that you have
responsibility. I'm sure that you have to
consider that it's my job not to let this war
spread. It's my job to keep my people from being
killed and save lives as much as possible. But it
must be also his responsibility to win that war and
bring it to a close as soon as possible. I think this
was a no-er. That's the best way I can
categorically answer. So you put your
responsibility on the politicians? I do,
categorically. And it's one of the blackest spots
on the history of this country in my life. Now watch
your opinion. What do you think? that you could
have done from Thailand, which would have
expedited the victory? From Thailand, in my
position? In your position. Practically
nothing. But if I had been put in a position, let's
say, higher up, maybe as Biden's President of the
United States, let's say, as Secretary of
Defense, or as Secretary of State, or as Chairman
of the JCS. Then maybe you could have done
something. I would have certainly recommended
something. Okay, and as far as, but as far as
Thailand, and as far as your job, your position in
Thailand, you did everything, everything
possible to win. Oh, absolutely. Absolutely.
Matter of fact. And there couldn't have been
anything else more. I mean, you couldn't have done
anything else, expand the effort or anything.
There was no politicians holding you back, right?
Politicians holding me back? No. No. No. OK, so you
did everything possible. But if you're asked a
question like this, if I violated instructions
and scrambled, OK, I know you're not. Because some
military men, like we just talked about, like
Westmoreland, these people complained,
especially after they came back to the United
States, that they were not allowed to win the war.
I did
everything I could without violating orders.
What were some of the orders that you would have
liked to have seen withdrawn?
I would have liked to have seen the Reins,
R-E-I-N-S, taken off of air power. And General
Mollmeyer given instructions to hit the enemy the
way you think best to stop this supply of South
Vietnam and stop this war. You go. That's the way
I'd like to see it done. It would have been over in
six months. What targets did Mollmeyer hit, then?
He would have hit... uh well the uh obviously the
dams for instance he had been turned loose on the
dams he'd been turned loose on the uh haiphong port
you know which we one president finally said hit it
uh see we got close to using their power the way we
should have used it he would have choked off the the
railroad from china proper down into hanoi into
north vietnam He would have completely
interdicted the supply of North Vietnam, cut them
off from the supply of all of their supporters,
China, Russia, and whoever chipped stuff in from
ports. As a matter of fact, you look back now, and
it's been said by many who apparently know the
facts better than I, that had we continued the B-52
bombing of North Vietnam another few months, it
would probably change the course of the entire
war. Have you ever heard that? Yeah, I've heard
that. Ain't no doubt in my mind it would have.
Listen, as a supposition, it's hard to say. Well,
we don't want to get into a probable debate here. I
just wanted to know your opinion on that. Yes, sir.
Could you all eat a bowl of chili with your
sandwich, Jerry? Do you like chili? Sure, I'd love
it. Oh, another thing. Let me tell you. I would have
changed the rules of engagement to take off all of
the restrictions for the fighter bombers. I
quoted a couple of these to you. I would have given
the Air Force much more freedom to hit the enemy no
matter where they were in Laos. I would have given
Westmoreland the right to send forces into Laos.
I would have engaged forces and laid on an invasion
plan of North Vietnam instead of fighting in South
Vietnam in a jungle. That's what I would have done.
Like MacArthur did in North Vietnam, I mean Korea.
He invaded the place up there. How about the use of
nuclear weapons?
There wasn't a target in
North Vietnam worthy of a nuclear weapon.
Psychologically, I think it would have been
abused.
That, now, is one thing I would not agree to. Were I
the president, I would never agree to use a nuclear
weapon in North Vietnam. I mean in the Southeast
Asia. Have you ever heard of this so-called
McNamara Wall? Oh, yeah. I think I know what you're
talking about. Deploying a wall of troops across
from the coast over into Laos into Thailand?
Mm-hmm. Yeah, I've heard of it. Most asinine thing
I've ever heard in my life. Matter of fact, I'm not
sure it's called a McNamara Wall. I think this was
pushed to a certain extent by the Army in... forces
of John Westmoreland. Okay.
What did you think of it? You thought of it. Why?
Why?
I'm sure that had that been done, that, well, there
wouldn't have been enough forces left to do any
fighting in the jungle then. Plus the fact, once
you see the area, I think you'd agree with me, Plus
the fact that then, I guess, the North Vietnamese
just went around the corner and flew Thailand. If
necessary, it goes right through the border in
Burma. There's not enough forces. That just
reminds me of the marginal wall in France. OK. We
all know how good that worked.
Now, I think we've covered this job. of yours in
Southeast Asia. Was there anything else before we
used to talk about why you left?
No, I think we spent enough time on it. OK, why did
you leave? It was time to rotate me back home and
give some more Air Force generals the experience
I'd had. Matter of fact, I stayed over there a tour
and a half. Really, I stayed over there.
From January 1966 to July 1967, you were in
Thailand. And in July 1967, you took on your last
tour of duty to August 68 as the commander's
headquarters 12th Air Force in Waco. Now, what
were your feelings when you left Southeast Asia?
Well, being a human being, I was glad to leave, get
back home, and particularly get back to my family.
I left with a great deal of pride in what I had
accomplished. I felt that I had done, under the
circumstances, quite frankly and not
egotistically, I think I had done a better job than
even General McConnell had asked me to do, when I
think back. described my job to many general
officers, my cohorts, and they, to them it's the
most comical thing in the world, and I think, how in
the world did you do it?
I was proud of what I'd done. As a matter of fact,
General McConnell subsequently gave me the
Distinguished Service
Medal, Air Force, for my
job. God bless him. He awarded me for the job I did.
He gave me my first Air Force command, 12th Air
Force. Okay, now, when you came back from the
Flying Tigers, you came back pretty much as a hero
in America. When you came back from Vietnam, how
did you come back? Oh, it's far different. I came
back home and
And I was on leave for about 30 days in the Dallas
area. But it was considerably different. I was
just another officer that had returned from
Southeast Asian War and done my tour of duty.
Let's move then into the 12th Air Force.
Tremendous command responsibility. What was the
size of the Air Force in Waco? The headquarters was
probably around 300, 400 people, but my entire
command was about, if I remember right, I think it
was about 44,500 people. And it extended from the
Mississippi. How many? 44,500. 44,000. And it
extended over a geographical area from the
Mississippi to California. And up as high as
Mountain Home, Idaho. And of course, in effect, I
had operational control, supervision, and
training of all national guard and reserve air
forces in that area, together with the regular
forces. Fighters, reconnaissance, troop
carrier,
tactical air control type forces, all tactical
air warfare type forces. The 12th Air Force was one
of the two air forces in the United States under the
Tactical Air Command. 12th and then the 9th Air
Force and Shore Air Force Base.